README.md, before:

﻿## Introduction

[git-tfs](http://git-tfs.com/) is a two-way bridge between TFS (Team Foundation Server) and git, similar to git-svn.
It fetches TFS commits into a git repository, and lets you push your updates back to TFS.

The most recent version is __0.25.0__. See the [change history](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/releases) for details.

If you're having problems, check out the [troubleshooting](doc/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) page.
And read [how to report an issue](doc/reporting-issues.md), before doing so ;)

## Get git-tfs

To get a stable version:

* Download a binary. Find it on the [release page](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/releases),
* Using Chocolatey. If [Chocolatey](http://chocolatey.org/) is already installed on your computer, run `choco install gittfs` to install the [Chocolatey package](http://chocolatey.org/packages/gittfs)

To get a development version

* Build from source code. See §[Building](#building) for more informations...
* Download a package of the development version generated by the [last builds](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pmiossec/git-tfs-v2qcm/build/artifacts) (in the artifacts section).

__Whatever the way you get git-tfs, you should have git-tfs.exe in your path (and git, too)__.

Add the git-tfs folder path to your PATH. You could also set it temporary (the time of your current terminal session) using :

    set PATH=%PATH%;%cd%\GitTfs\bin\Debug

## Use git-tfs

You need .NET 4 and either the 2010, 2012 or 2013 version of Team Explorer installed (or Visual Studio).

### Help

    #lists the available commands
    git tfs help

    #shows a summary of the usage of a given command
    git tfs help <command>

### Cloning

    # [optional] find a tfs repository path to clone :
    git tfs list-remote-branches http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection

    # clone the whole repository (wait for a while...) :
    git tfs clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project

    # or, if you're impatient (and want to work from the last changeset) :
    git tfs quick-clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project

    # or, if you're impatient (and want a specific changeset) :
    git tfs quick-clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project -c=145

**Note:** Before cloning your repository, please have a look at the [clone command doc](doc/commands/clone.md) or [advanced use cases](#more-advanced-use-cases) to discover options that could help you!

### Working

    cd some_project
    git log # shows your TFS history, unless you did quick-clone
    tf history # error: no workspace ;)

    # [do work, do work, just using git], then...
    # gets latest from TFS to the branch tfs/default :
    git tfs fetch

### Checkin

    # report all the commits on TFS :
    git tfs rcheckin

    # or commit using the tfs checkin window
    git tfs checkintool

    # or commit with a message
    git tfs checkin -m "Did stuff"

    # or shelve your changes :
    git tfs shelve MY_AWESOME_CHANGES

git-tfs is designed to work outside of any existing TFS workspaces.

### More advanced use cases

Have a look to more detailed git-tfs use cases:

* [Working with no branches](doc/usecases/working_with_no_branches.md)
* [Manage TFS branches with git-tfs](doc/usecases/manage_tfs_branches.md)
* [Migrate your history from TFSVC to a git repository](doc/usecases/migrate_tfs_to_git.md)
* [Working with shelvesets](doc/usecases/working_with_shelvesets.md)
* [Git and Tfs (ProGit v2 Book)](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-and-Other-Systems-Git-as-a-Client#Git-and-TFS)
* [Migrate from Tfs to Git (ProGit v2 Book)](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-and-Other-Systems-Migrating-to-Git#TFS)

## Available commands / options

This is the complete list of commands in the master branch on github.

### Repository setup

* [list-remote-branches](doc/commands/list-remote-branches.md): *list tfs branches that can be cloned or initialized* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)
* [clone](doc/commands/clone.md): *clone a tfs path/branch and its history in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [quick-clone](doc/commands/quick-clone.md): *clone a specific changeset of a tfs path/branch in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [bootstrap](doc/commands/bootstrap.md): *bootstrap an existing git-tfs repository cloned from an existing repository* - since [0.11][v0.11]
* [init](doc/commands/init.md): *initialize a git-tfs repository (without getting changesets)* - since 0.9

### Pull from TFS

* [clone](doc/commands/clone.md): *clone a tfs path/branch and its history in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [fetch](doc/commands/fetch.md): *get changesets from tfs and update the tfs remote* - since 0.9
* [pull](doc/commands/pull.md): *get changesets from tfs, update the tfs remote and update your work* - since 0.9
* [quick-clone](doc/commands/quick-clone.md): *clone a specific changeset (without history) of a tfs path/branch in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [unshelve](doc/commands/unshelve.md): *fetch a tfs shelvesets in your repository* - since [0.11][v0.12]
* [shelve-list](doc/commands/shelve-list.md): *list tfs shelvesets* - since [0.12][v0.12]
* [labels](doc/commands/labels.md): *fetch tfs labels* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)

### Push to TFS

* [rcheckin](doc/commands/rcheckin.md): *replicate your git commits as tfs changesets* - since [0.12][v0.12]
* [checkin](doc/commands/checkin.md): *checkin your git commits as one tfs changeset* - since 0.10
* [checkintool](doc/commands/checkintool.md): *checkin in tfs using the tfs checkin dialog* - since 0.10
* [shelve](doc/commands/shelve.md): *create a shelveset from git commits* - since 0.9

### Manage TFS branches

* [list-remote-branches](doc/commands/list-remote-branches.md): *list tfs branches that can be cloned or initialized* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)
* [branch](doc/commands/branch.md): *manage (initialize, create, remove) tfs branches* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)

### Other

* [info](doc/commands/info.md): *get some informations about git-tfs and tfs*
* [cleanup](doc/commands/cleanup.md): *clean some git-tfs internal objects* - since 0.10
* [cleanup-workspaces](doc/commands/cleanup-workspaces.md): *clean tfs workspaces created by git-tfs* - since 0.10
* [help](doc/commands/help.md): *get help on git-tfs commands* - since 0.9
* [verify](doc/commands/verify.md): *verify the changesets fetched* - since [0.11][v0.11]
* [autotag](doc/config.md#per-tfs-remote) option - since [0.12][v0.12]
* [subtree](doc/commands/subtree.md): *manage sparse tfs pathes with git-tfs* - since [0.19](../../releases/tag/v0.19.0)
* [reset-remote](doc/commands/reset-remote.md): *reset a tfs remote to a previous changeset to fetch again its history* - since [0.19](../../releases/tag/v0.19.0)
* [checkout](doc/commands/checkout.md): *checkout a commit by a changeset id* - since [0.21](../../releases/tag/v0.21.0)
* diagnostics (for git-tfs developers only) - since 0.9

* [config file](doc/config.md)

## Building

### Continuous Integration Status

[![Teamcity build status](http://teamcity.codebetter.com/app/rest/builds/buildType:bt787/statusIcon)](http://teamcity.codebetter.com/project.html?projectId=GitTfs&guest=1) &
[![AppVeyor build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/git-tfs/git-tfs)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pmiossec/git-tfs-v2qcm)
( Great thanks to [<img src="http://teamcity.codebetter.com/img/icons/teamcity.svg" width="30" height="30" /> Jetbrains Teamcity](http://www.jetbrains.com/teamcity) and [![AppVeyor Icon](http://www.appveyor.com/site/favicon.ico) AppVeyor](http://www.appveyor.com/)! )

### Prerequisites

* MSBuild (included in .NET 4)

And depending of the version of TFS you use :

* [Visual Studio 2013 SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40758)
* [Visual Studio 2012 SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30668)
* [Visual Studio 2010 SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=21307C23-F0FF-4EF2-A0A4-DCA54DDB1E21&displaylang=en)

### Get the source code and build

    #get the source code
    git clone git://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs.git
    cd git-tfs

    #building with MSBuild (with the default configuration: debug)
    msbuild GitTfs.sln

    #or building with MSBuild in release
    msbuild GitTfs.sln /p:Configuration=release

    #or with Rake (Ruby)
    rake build:debug

**Note:** if the build fails because you don't have all the `Visual Studio SDK`, just unload in Visual Studio all the projects you are not interested in to be able to build and use your own version.
You could also install, the Team Foundation Server Object Model for [Tfs 2010](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/a37e19fb-3052-4fc9-bef7-4a4682069a75) ([chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/tfs2010objectmodel)), [Tfs 2012](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/f30e5cc7-036e-449c-a541-d522299445aa) ([chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/tfs2012objectmodel)) and [Tfs 2013](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/3278bfa7-64a7-4a75-b0da-ec4ccb8d21b6) ([chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/tfs2013objectmodel)).

## Contributing
Contributions are always welcome. Thanks to all our [contributors](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/graphs/contributors)!

There are some simple [guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Especially, don't forget to set `core.autocrlf` to `true` (`git config core.autocrlf true`), and indentation using 4 spaces.

## Migrations
If you're migrating a TFS server from 2008 or 2005 to 2010, you might want to [Specify Alternate TFS URLs](doc/specify-alternate-tfs-urls.md).

[v0.11]: http://mattonrails.wordpress.com/2011/03/11/git-tfs-0-11-0-release-notes/ "0.11 Release notes"
[v0.12]: http://sparethought.wordpress.com/2011/08/10/git-tfs-bridge-v0-12-released/

If you have questions or suggestions about how we could improve git-tfs you could go to [google group](http://groups.google.com/group/git-tfs-dev).

[Example](http://sparethought.wordpress.com/2011/07/18/how-to-establish-git-central-repository-for-working-against-tfs-with-git-tfs-bridge/) of setting up central git repository that tracks TFS automatically.

## Community

Drop in and chat in [![gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/git-tfs/git-tfs?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
We also have a [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/group/git-tfs-dev).

Commit message:

Update readme with fork informations

README.md, after:

﻿# ChristopheLav's Fork

Fork of the [Git-Tfs](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs) project.

Used this fork to publish some improvements, stability and fixes for branching support features.

All devs are made in the [stability-branching](https://github.com/ChristopheLav/git-tfs/tree/stability-branching) branch and based on the last __0.25.0__ official release.


---


# Official readme

## Introduction

[git-tfs](http://git-tfs.com/) is a two-way bridge between TFS (Team Foundation Server) and git, similar to git-svn.
It fetches TFS commits into a git repository, and lets you push your updates back to TFS.

The most recent version is __0.25.0__. See the [change history](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/releases) for details.

If you're having problems, check out the [troubleshooting](doc/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) page.
And read [how to report an issue](doc/reporting-issues.md), before doing so ;)

## Get git-tfs

To get a stable version:

* Download a binary. Find it on the [release page](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/releases),
* Using Chocolatey. If [Chocolatey](http://chocolatey.org/) is already installed on your computer, run `choco install gittfs` to install the [Chocolatey package](http://chocolatey.org/packages/gittfs)

To get a development version

* Build from source code. See §[Building](#building) for more informations...
* Download a package of the development version generated by the [last builds](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pmiossec/git-tfs-v2qcm/build/artifacts) (in the artifacts section).

__Whatever the way you get git-tfs, you should have git-tfs.exe in your path (and git, too)__.

Add the git-tfs folder path to your PATH. You could also set it temporary (the time of your current terminal session) using :

    set PATH=%PATH%;%cd%\GitTfs\bin\Debug

## Use git-tfs

You need .NET 4 and either the 2010, 2012 or 2013 version of Team Explorer installed (or Visual Studio).

### Help

    #lists the available commands
    git tfs help

    #shows a summary of the usage of a given command
    git tfs help <command>

### Cloning

    # [optional] find a tfs repository path to clone :
    git tfs list-remote-branches http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection

    # clone the whole repository (wait for a while...) :
    git tfs clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project

    # or, if you're impatient (and want to work from the last changeset) :
    git tfs quick-clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project

    # or, if you're impatient (and want a specific changeset) :
    git tfs quick-clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project -c=145

**Note:** Before cloning your repository, please have a look at the [clone command doc](doc/commands/clone.md) or [advanced use cases](#more-advanced-use-cases) to discover options that could help you!

### Working

    cd some_project
    git log # shows your TFS history, unless you did quick-clone
    tf history # error: no workspace ;)

    # [do work, do work, just using git], then...
    # gets latest from TFS to the branch tfs/default :
    git tfs fetch

### Checkin

    # report all the commits on TFS :
    git tfs rcheckin

    # or commit using the tfs checkin window
    git tfs checkintool

    # or commit with a message
    git tfs checkin -m "Did stuff"

    # or shelve your changes :
    git tfs shelve MY_AWESOME_CHANGES

git-tfs is designed to work outside of any existing TFS workspaces.

### More advanced use cases

Have a look to more detailed git-tfs use cases:

* [Working with no branches](doc/usecases/working_with_no_branches.md)
* [Manage TFS branches with git-tfs](doc/usecases/manage_tfs_branches.md)
* [Migrate your history from TFSVC to a git repository](doc/usecases/migrate_tfs_to_git.md)
* [Working with shelvesets](doc/usecases/working_with_shelvesets.md)
* [Git and Tfs (ProGit v2 Book)](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-and-Other-Systems-Git-as-a-Client#Git-and-TFS)
* [Migrate from Tfs to Git (ProGit v2 Book)](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-and-Other-Systems-Migrating-to-Git#TFS)

## Available commands / options

This is the complete list of commands in the master branch on github.

### Repository setup

* [list-remote-branches](doc/commands/list-remote-branches.md): *list tfs branches that can be cloned or initialized* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)
* [clone](doc/commands/clone.md): *clone a tfs path/branch and its history in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [quick-clone](doc/commands/quick-clone.md): *clone a specific changeset of a tfs path/branch in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [bootstrap](doc/commands/bootstrap.md): *bootstrap an existing git-tfs repository cloned from an existing repository* - since [0.11][v0.11]
* [init](doc/commands/init.md): *initialize a git-tfs repository (without getting changesets)* - since 0.9

### Pull from TFS

* [clone](doc/commands/clone.md): *clone a tfs path/branch and its history in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [fetch](doc/commands/fetch.md): *get changesets from tfs and update the tfs remote* - since 0.9
* [pull](doc/commands/pull.md): *get changesets from tfs, update the tfs remote and update your work* - since 0.9
* [quick-clone](doc/commands/quick-clone.md): *clone a specific changeset (without history) of a tfs path/branch in a git repository* - since 0.9
* [unshelve](doc/commands/unshelve.md): *fetch a tfs shelvesets in your repository* - since [0.11][v0.12]
* [shelve-list](doc/commands/shelve-list.md): *list tfs shelvesets* - since [0.12][v0.12]
* [labels](doc/commands/labels.md): *fetch tfs labels* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)

### Push to TFS

* [rcheckin](doc/commands/rcheckin.md): *replicate your git commits as tfs changesets* - since [0.12][v0.12]
* [checkin](doc/commands/checkin.md): *checkin your git commits as one tfs changeset* - since 0.10
* [checkintool](doc/commands/checkintool.md): *checkin in tfs using the tfs checkin dialog* - since 0.10
* [shelve](doc/commands/shelve.md): *create a shelveset from git commits* - since 0.9

### Manage TFS branches

* [list-remote-branches](doc/commands/list-remote-branches.md): *list tfs branches that can be cloned or initialized* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)
* [branch](doc/commands/branch.md): *manage (initialize, create, remove) tfs branches* - since [0.17](../../releases/tag/v0.17.0)

### Other

* [info](doc/commands/info.md): *get some informations about git-tfs and tfs*
* [cleanup](doc/commands/cleanup.md): *clean some git-tfs internal objects* - since 0.10
* [cleanup-workspaces](doc/commands/cleanup-workspaces.md): *clean tfs workspaces created by git-tfs* - since 0.10
* [help](doc/commands/help.md): *get help on git-tfs commands* - since 0.9
* [verify](doc/commands/verify.md): *verify the changesets fetched* - since [0.11][v0.11]
* [autotag](doc/config.md#per-tfs-remote) option - since [0.12][v0.12]
* [subtree](doc/commands/subtree.md): *manage sparse tfs pathes with git-tfs* - since [0.19](../../releases/tag/v0.19.0)
* [reset-remote](doc/commands/reset-remote.md): *reset a tfs remote to a previous changeset to fetch again its history* - since [0.19](../../releases/tag/v0.19.0)
* [checkout](doc/commands/checkout.md): *checkout a commit by a changeset id* - since [0.21](../../releases/tag/v0.21.0)
* diagnostics (for git-tfs developers only) - since 0.9

* [config file](doc/config.md)

## Building

### Continuous Integration Status

[![Teamcity build status](http://teamcity.codebetter.com/app/rest/builds/buildType:bt787/statusIcon)](http://teamcity.codebetter.com/project.html?projectId=GitTfs&guest=1) &
[![AppVeyor build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/git-tfs/git-tfs)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pmiossec/git-tfs-v2qcm)
( Great thanks to [<img src="http://teamcity.codebetter.com/img/icons/teamcity.svg" width="30" height="30" /> Jetbrains Teamcity](http://www.jetbrains.com/teamcity) and [![AppVeyor Icon](http://www.appveyor.com/site/favicon.ico) AppVeyor](http://www.appveyor.com/)! )

### Prerequisites

* MSBuild (included in .NET 4)

And depending of the version of TFS you use :

* [Visual Studio 2013 SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40758)
* [Visual Studio 2012 SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30668)
* [Visual Studio 2010 SDK](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=21307C23-F0FF-4EF2-A0A4-DCA54DDB1E21&displaylang=en)

### Get the source code and build

    #get the source code
    git clone git://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs.git
    cd git-tfs

    #building with MSBuild (with the default configuration: debug)
    msbuild GitTfs.sln

    #or building with MSBuild in release
    msbuild GitTfs.sln /p:Configuration=release

    #or with Rake (Ruby)
    rake build:debug

**Note:** if the build fails because you don't have all the `Visual Studio SDK`, just unload in Visual Studio all the projects you are not interested in to be able to build and use your own version.
You could also install, the Team Foundation Server Object Model for [Tfs 2010](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/a37e19fb-3052-4fc9-bef7-4a4682069a75) ([chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/tfs2010objectmodel)), [Tfs 2012](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/f30e5cc7-036e-449c-a541-d522299445aa) ([chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/tfs2012objectmodel)) and [Tfs 2013](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/3278bfa7-64a7-4a75-b0da-ec4ccb8d21b6) ([chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/tfs2013objectmodel)).

## Contributing
Contributions are always welcome. Thanks to all our [contributors](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/graphs/contributors)!

There are some simple [guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Especially, don't forget to set `core.autocrlf` to `true` (`git config core.autocrlf true`), and indentation using 4 spaces.

## Migrations
If you're migrating a TFS server from 2008 or 2005 to 2010, you might want to [Specify Alternate TFS URLs](doc/specify-alternate-tfs-urls.md).

[v0.11]: http://mattonrails.wordpress.com/2011/03/11/git-tfs-0-11-0-release-notes/ "0.11 Release notes"
[v0.12]: http://sparethought.wordpress.com/2011/08/10/git-tfs-bridge-v0-12-released/

If you have questions or suggestions about how we could improve git-tfs you could go to [google group](http://groups.google.com/group/git-tfs-dev).

[Example](http://sparethought.wordpress.com/2011/07/18/how-to-establish-git-central-repository-for-working-against-tfs-with-git-tfs-bridge/) of setting up central git repository that tracks TFS automatically.

## Community

Drop in and chat in [![gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/git-tfs/git-tfs?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
We also have a [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/group/git-tfs-dev).
